doc/tools/git.md, before:

# GIT

## git vs svn

git | svn
--- | ---
push | commit
master | trunk
pull | update

## Links

+ [Inspecting a repository](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/inspecting-a-repository), Git lets you completely ignore files by placing paths in a special file called `.gitignore`.
+ [Saving changes](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes), add, commit, stash.
+ [Sync](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/syncing) with fetch, remote, push, pull

## Git command line

1. The common Git guides are:

| guide | description |
|------------|------------------------------|
| attributes | Defining attributes per path |
|everyday    | Everyday Git With 20 Commands Or So|
|glossary    | A Git glossary|
|ignore      | Specifies intentionally untracked files to ignore|
|modules     | Defining submodule properties|
|revisions   | Specifying revisions and ranges for Git|
|tutorial    | A tutorial introduction to Git (for version 1.5.1 or newer)|
|workflows   | An overview of recommended workflows with Git|
Run like `git help <guide_name>`.

2. **Git Bash**

```sh
git log -10
git diff HEAD
git add tools/git.md
git status
# commit everything with message and author overridden
git commit -a -m 'modified git.md' --author illegitimis
git help push
git push
git push origin
git reset HEAD^
git revert <commit>
# list local and remote branches verbose
git branch --list -a -vv
```

3. **update fork**. If using _SourceTree_ one can pull from remote origin, selecting the dev branch to pull.

```cmd
cd <dir_where_i_cloned_my_fork_of_a_repo>
git remote add bradyholt-cron-expression-descriptor-master https://github.com/bradyholt/cron-expression-descriptor
git pull bradyholt-cron-expression-descriptor-master master
# unstage_conflicts
```

4. git push SSL_ERROR_SYSCALL

```cmd
git config http.postBuffer 524288000
```

5. file **history**
  - [GitLens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens) extension
  - file commit history with patches and beyond renames

  ```bat
  rem path to file is relative to root
  rem differentiates revisions from files
  $ git log --follow -p -- ./src/Proj/Validation/OrderRequestDtoValidator.cs
  ```

6. **stashes**

```sh
git stash list
git stash show stash@{0}

```

[<<](../tools.md) | [home](../../README.md)

Commit message:

update fork from upstream master

doc/tools/git.md, after:

# GIT

## git vs svn

git | svn
--- | ---
push | commit
master | trunk
pull | update

## Links

+ [Inspecting a repository](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/inspecting-a-repository), Git lets you completely ignore files by placing paths in a special file called `.gitignore`.
+ [Saving changes](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes), add, commit, stash.
+ [Sync](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/syncing) with fetch, remote, push, pull

## Git command line

1. The common Git guides are:

| guide | description |
|------------|------------------------------|
| attributes | Defining attributes per path |
| everyday   | Everyday Git With 20 Commands Or So|
| glossary   | A Git glossary|
| ignore     | Specifies intentionally untracked files to ignore|
| modules    | Defining submodule properties|
| revisions  | Specifying revisions and ranges for Git|
| tutorial   | A tutorial introduction to Git (for version 1.5.1 or newer)|
| workflows  | An overview of recommended workflows with Git|
Run like `git help <guide_name>`.

2. **Git Bash**

```sh
git log -10
git diff HEAD
git add tools/git.md
git status
# commit everything with message and author overridden
git commit -a -m 'modified git.md' --author illegitimis
git help push
git push
git push origin
git reset HEAD^
git revert <commit>
# list local and remote branches verbose
git branch --list -a -vv
```

3. **update fork**. If using _SourceTree_ one can pull from remote origin, selecting the dev branch to pull.

```cmd
cd <dir_where_i_cloned_my_fork_of_a_repo>
git remote add bradyholt-cron-expression-descriptor-master https://github.com/bradyholt/cron-expression-descriptor
git pull bradyholt-cron-expression-descriptor-master master
# unstage_conflicts
```

4. git push SSL_ERROR_SYSCALL

```cmd
git config http.postBuffer 524288000
```

5. file **history**
  - [GitLens](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=eamodio.gitlens) extension
  - file commit history with patches and beyond renames

  ```bat
  rem path to file is relative to root
  rem differentiates revisions from files
  $ git log --follow -p -- ./src/Proj/Validation/OrderRequestDtoValidator.cs
  ```

6. **stashes**

```sh
git stash list
git stash show stash@{0}
```

7. github _update fork_ from master

```sh
git remote -v
git remote add upstream https://github.com/ORIGINAL_OWNER/ORIGINAL_REPOSITORY.git
git remote -v
git fetch upstream
git checkout master
git merge upstream/master
git push -v --tags origin master:master
```

[<<](../tools.md) | [home](../../README.md)
