# Knowledge check

1. Which cloud deployment model would be the best match for the following situation? \
  A SQL server database is needed for a short-term project. \
  The IT department does not have available hardware that meets the performance requirements or resources to deploy it. \
  The project starts next week. \
  Once the project is over, the database is no longer needed.
  - [X] Public cloud  
  The need for a quick deployment and the short lifecycle of the SQL database make public cloud the best option.
  - [ ] Private cloud
  - [ ] Hybrid cloud  
2. Which cloud deployment model is described in the following scenario? \
You create several virtual machines in the cloud. \
The VMs are networked together using a virtual network. \
The VMs have access to x-ray image files in cloud storage. \
One of the VMs is a web server that host a website exposed to the Internet for customers to access their records. \
There is a VPN that connects the solution to your on-premises datacenter for customer information to display with the image files.
- [ ] Public cloud
- [ ] Private cloud
- [X] Hybrid cloud  
This scenario uses both public and private cloud with a connection between the two.  
Therefore, it is a hybrid cloud deployment.  
3. Which cloud deployment model is described in the following scenario? \
You have two datacenters in your organization.\
One datacenter has a database that can only reside in one of the datacenters because of a regulatory requirement.\
You want to access the database from the other datacenter.\
_You create a VPN using a cloud provider to connect the two datacenters_.
- [ ] Public cloud
- [X] **Private** cloud  
The VPN is a public cloud resource; however, because the VPN is a private connection between two private datacenters, this is a private cloud deployment.
- [ ] Hybrid cloud  

[<](./1-lp-az-900.md)