# Knowledge check

1. Which of the following can be used to manage **governance** across multiple Azure subscriptions?
- [ ] Azure initiatives
- [X] Management groups  
Management groups facilitate the **hierarchical ordering** of Azure resources into collections,  
at a *level of scope above subscriptions*.  
Distinct governance conditions can be applied to each management group,  
along with Azure Policy and Azure role-based access controls, to manage Azure subscriptions effectively.  
The resources and subscriptions assigned to a management group *automatically inherit the conditions applied to the management group*.
- [ ] Resource groups
2. Which of the following is a **logical unit of Azure services** that links to an Azure account?
- [X] Azure subscription  
That's **correct**.  
An Azure subscription is a *logical unit of Azure services* that links to an Azure account.  
An Azure subscription is an object that represents a _container_ that you can put resources in.  
Subscriptions are tied to tenants, so one tenant can have many subscriptions, but not vice versa.
- [ ] Management group  
That's *incorrect*.  
Management groups are used to help with **planning and tracking your Azure spend**.  
Management groups facilitate the hierarchical ordering of Azure resources into collections, at a level of scope above subscriptions.
- [ ] Resource group  
That's *incorrect*.  
Resource groups hold resources like virtual machines and storage.  
They work inside the Azure accounts.
- [ ] Public cloud
3. Which of the following features _does not apply_ to resource groups?
- [ ] Resources can be in only one resource group.
- [ ] Role-based access control can be applied to the resource group.
- [X] Resource groups can be nested.  
That's correct.  
**Resource groups cannot be nested**.
4. Which of the following statements _is a valid statement_ about an Azure subscription?
- [ ] Using Azure doesn't require a subscription.
- [X] An Azure subscription is a logical unit of Azure services.  
That's correct.  
A subscription is a set of Azure services _bundled together_ for **tracking and billing** purposes.  
_Resource access control occurs at the subscription level_.  
Organizations use Azure subscriptions to manage and govern their Azure resources

[<< home](../az.md) | [< LP1 AZ900](./1-lp-az-900.md)