# Knowledge check

1. Tailwind Traders wants to create a secure communication tunnel between its branch offices.  
Which of the following technologies _can't be used_?
- [ ] Point-to-site virtual private network
- [X] Implicit FTP over SSL  
That's correct.  
FTP over SSL can't be used to create a secure communication tunnel.  
- [ ] Azure ExpressRoute
- [ ] Site-to-site virtual private network
2. Tailwind Traders wants to use Azure ExpressRoute to connect  
its **on-premises** network to the Microsoft cloud.  
Which of the following choices _isn't_ an ExpressRoute model that Tailwind Traders can use?
- [ ] Any-to-any connection  
That's incorrect.  
_Any-to-any connection is an ExpressRoute model_.
- [X] Site-to-site virtual private network
- [ ] Point-to-point Ethernet connection  
That's incorrect.  
_Point-to-point Ethernet connection is an ExpressRoute model_.
- [ ] CloudExchange colocation
3. Which of the following options can you use to link virtual networks?
- [ ] Network address translation
- [ ] Multi-chassis link aggregation  
That's incorrect.  
Multi-chassis link aggregation _can't be used to link virtual networks_.
- [ ] Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
- [X] Virtual network peering  
That's correct.  
_Virtual network peering can be used to link virtual networks_.
4. Which of the following options _isn't_ a benefit of ExpressRoute?
- [ ] Redundant connectivity  
This option _is a benefit_ of choosing to connect your network to Microsoft by using ExpressRoute.
- [ ] Consistent network throughput
- [X] Encrypted network communication  
That's correct  
ExpressRoute _does provide private connectivity, but it isn't encrypted_.
- [ ] Access to Microsoft cloud services  
This option _is a benefit_ of choosing to connect your network to Microsoft by using ExpressRoute.

[<](2-lp-az-900.md)