# Knowledge check

> https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/examine-privacy-compliance-data-protection-standards/8-knowledge-check

1. Where can the team access details about the personal data Microsoft processes and how the company processes it, including for Cortana?

- [X] Microsoft Privacy Statement \
That's correct. \
The Microsoft Privacy Statement provides information that's relevant to specific services, including Cortana.
- [ ] The Azure compliance documentation
- [ ] Microsoft compliance offerings

2. Where can the legal team access information around how the Microsoft cloud helps them secure sensitive data and comply with applicable laws and regulations?
- [ ] Microsoft Privacy Statement
- [X] Trust Center \
That's correct. \
The Trust Center is a great resource for people in your organization who might play a role in security, privacy, and compliance..
- [ ] Online Services Terms

3. Where can the IT department find **reference blueprints** that it can *apply directly to its Azure subscriptions*?
- [ ] Online Services Terms \
That's incorrect. \
The Online Services Terms is a legal agreement between Microsoft and the customer that details the obligations by both parties with respect to the processing and security of customer data and personal data.
- [x] Azure compliance documentation
That's correct. \
The compliance documentation provides reference blueprints, or policy definitions, \
for common standards that you can apply to your Azure subscription.
- [ ] Microsoft Privacy Statement